Dear fellow practitioners,
Recently, many people have been using the words "healing" or "
going for healing" in their daily conversations.
We would like to ask if a Buddhist practitioner, while
working, also uses the word "healing," will lose their
mindfulness of taking refuge? The Dharma group reflects on the practice of using the
words "healing" or "going for healing" with
friends. If the Buddhist practitioner doesn't intentionally focus on it, they wo
n't lose their mindfulness of
taking refuge. Actually, in the secular world, people often use a slightly more sophisticated term, but "healing" means someone has a wound in their heart and is going to heal it. What about Buddhism? In our Buddhist tradition, we call it going to practice to eliminate suffering.
Similarly, in the secular world, people
say things like, for example, if someone's soul is
very tired, they might
go on a trip to heal their
soul. But that's not the correct way to put it. It's like taking some kind of painkiller,
but if they go and do
things that violate the precepts, it won't heal; it's like
taking
painkillers, but they'll come back in more pain.
If we go and commit
transgressions, isn't that right?
That's not called healing, so
we must use the word "healing."
What kind of healing is this? Healing the
broken precepts, the erroneous views, the wrong views—
going to practice Buddhism is called healing, isn't it?
Healing our karma. So,
while we live in the world,
we still use the term "living in the world."
But if a friend
comes here to learn about morality and healing,
I say, "Yes, this is healing, it's okay to
heal." That's the correct
meaning. But if a friend says, "
No, let's stop. People go here to
eat and kill animals to heal and
relieve their suffering," I say, "No, it's not
healing." But anyway,
I adapt. There are things I can say, and things
I can't
say. Respectfully,
dear fellow practitioners, I like
this best: I always turn
towards the Buddha. I respectfully address the Buddha, the one who is
truly enlightened, whose words are perfectly complete and
meaningful. Our Buddha
is the one who speaks.  The meaning is extremely
harmonious. The meaning is the same as the words; that is, the words
spoken have the same meaning. That is, the words spoken have
no contradictory meanings. Then, the Buddha
spoke of meanings that are unknown
to the world.
Impermanence is unknown to the world; only
the Buddhas in the world
know impermanence. How could the
world know that?
Therefore, the mind should
practice diligently so that later, one can achieve
harmonious meaning in speech, meaning that what one says
has a very accurate meaning in relation to events and
phenomena. Therefore, to achieve that,
we must maintain the
precepts of speech very well; what we say must be true, accurate, and
truthful. So, in the world, with
those who do not understand Buddhist teachings,
we may follow others and
speak in a certain way to please them and
maintain relationships. But when someone knows
Buddhist teachings, they are not disturbed by anything.
Therefore, we must find words that have
their own meaning, and that meaning must be
appropriate to the events and phenomena we
are trying to convey.  That's what we
should strive for, esteemed fellow practitioners, not
saying nonsense
to maintain relationships with certain
people, keeping unnecessary connections. There are things we shouldn't say; we
can remain silent, and no one will force us.
If our words
harm our wisdom, it's better
not to speak harshly. But if we say
something that brings benefit in terms of karma,
then we should say it a lot!
So, if these words
truly bring benefit, then, as the practitioners
say, for example, your friends
like the word "healing," and you invite them to go and say, "
Healing." That's the correct meaning, right?
Healing what we heal—right
view, good heart—healing is the cause and effect
leading to good results. That's called
going to heal, studying Buddhism is going to heal.
[music]
I